State Council Circular on Issuing the  
New Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan  
Guo Fa [2017] No. 35  

The People’s Governments of All Provinces, Autonomous Regions, and Municipalities Directly Under the Central Government; All Ministries and Commissions of the State Council; and All Institutions Directly Under the State Council:  

The "New Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan" is hereby issued to you. Please implement it conscientiously.  

State Council  
July 8, 2017  
(This Document is for Public Release)  

**New Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan**  

The rapid development of artificial intelligence (AI) will profoundly change human social life and the world. To seize the major strategic opportunities presented by AI development, build China’s first-mover advantage in AI, accelerate the building of an innovative nation and a world leader in science and technology, and in accordance with the deployment requirements of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) and the State Council, this Plan is formulated.  

**I. Strategic Situation**  

AI development has entered a new stage. After more than 60 years of evolution, and driven particularly by new theories and technologies such as mobile internet, big data, supercomputing, sensor networks, and brain science, as well as strong demand from economic and social development, AI is accelerating its development, exhibiting new characteristics such as deep learning, cross-border integration, human-computer collaboration, open collective intelligence, and autonomous control. Big data-driven knowledge learning, cross-media collaborative processing, human-computer collaborative augmented intelligence, collective integrated intelligence, and autonomous intelligent systems have become the focus of AI development. Brain-inspired intelligence, inspired by achievements in brain science, is poised for breakthroughs. The trend toward chip-based, hardware-based, and platform-based development is more evident. AI development has entered a new stage. Currently, the overall advancement of disciplines, theoretical modeling, technological innovation, and software/hardware upgrades related to new-generation AI is triggering chain-breakthroughs, accelerating the leap from digitalization and networking to intelligence across all sectors of the economy and society.  

AI has become a new focus of international competition. AI is a strategic technology that leads the future. Major developed countries in the world are taking the development of AI as a major strategy to enhance national competitiveness and safeguard national security, stepping up the introduction of plans and policies, and strengthening deployment around core technologies, top talent, standards, and norms, striving to gain a dominant position in the new round of international scientific and technological competition. Currently, China's national security and international competition situation are becoming more complex. We must adopt a global perspective, systematically plan and proactively strategize the development of AI at the national strategic level, firmly grasp the strategic initiative in international competition at this new stage of AI development, build new competitive advantages, open up new development space, and effectively safeguard national security.  

AI has become a new engine for economic development. As the core driving force of a new round of industrial transformation, AI will further unleash the huge energy accumulated from previous technological revolutions and industrial transformations, create new powerful engines, restructure all aspects of economic activities such as production, distribution, exchange, and consumption, generate new intelligent demand from macro to micro levels, spawn new technologies, products, industries, business forms, and models, trigger major changes in economic structure, profoundly change human production, lifestyle, and thinking patterns, and achieve an overall leap in social productivity. China's economic development has entered a new normal, and the task of deepening supply-side structural reform is very arduous. We must accelerate the deep application of AI, cultivate and strengthen the AI industry, and inject new momentum into China's economic development.  

AI brings new opportunities for social development. China is at the decisive stage of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects. Challenges such as an aging population and resource/environmental constraints remain severe. The widespread application of AI in education, healthcare, elderly care, environmental protection, urban operations, judicial services, and other fields will greatly improve the precision of public services and comprehensively enhance people's quality of life. AI technology can accurately perceive, predict, and warn of major situations in infrastructure and social security operations, timely grasp group cognition and psychological changes, and enable proactive decision-making and response, which will significantly improve the capability and level of social governance and play an irreplaceable role in effectively maintaining social stability.  

The uncertainties of AI development bring new challenges. AI is a disruptive technology with broad impact, which may bring problems such as changes in employment structure, impacts on law and social ethics, infringement of personal privacy, and challenges to international relations norms. It will have a profound impact on government management, economic security, social stability, and even global governance. While vigorously developing AI, we must attach great importance to the potential security risks and challenges, strengthen forward-looking prevention and restraint guidance, minimize risks, and ensure the safe, reliable, and controllable development of AI.  

China has a good foundation for developing AI. The state has deployed key special projects such as intelligent manufacturing under the National Key R&D Program, and has issued and implemented the "Internet Plus" AI Three-Year Action Implementation Plan, proposing a series of measures in terms of scientific research, application promotion, and industrial development. Through years of continuous accumulation, China has made significant progress in the field of AI. The number of international scientific papers published and invention patents granted ranks second in the world, with important breakthroughs in core key technologies in some fields. Speech recognition and visual recognition technologies are world-leading. Adaptive autonomous learning, intuitive perception, comprehensive reasoning, hybrid intelligence, and collective intelligence initially possess the capability for leapfrog development. Chinese information processing, intelligent monitoring, biometric recognition, industrial robots, service robots, and unmanned vehicles are gradually entering practical application. AI innovation and entrepreneurship are increasingly active, a number of leading backbone enterprises are accelerating their growth, and China has gained extensive international attention and recognition. The accelerated accumulation of technological capabilities, combined with massive data resources, huge application demand, and an open market environment, forms a unique advantage for China's AI development.  

At the same time, we must also clearly see that there is still a gap between China's overall AI development level and that of developed countries. There is a lack of major original achievements, and significant gaps exist in basic theory, core algorithms, as well as key equipment, high-end chips, major products and systems, basic materials, components, software, and interfaces. Research institutions and enterprises have not yet formed an internationally influential ecosystem and industrial chain, and there is a lack of systematic forward-looking R&D layout. Top AI talent is far from meeting demand. The infrastructure, policies, laws, regulations, and standard systems that adapt to AI development urgently need improvement.  

Facing the new situation and new demands, we must proactively seek change and adapt, firmly grasp the major historical opportunity of AI development, closely follow development, assess the general trend, proactively plan, grasp the direction, seize the initiative, lead the new trend of world AI development, serve economic and social development and support national security, and drive the overall leap and rapid development of national competitiveness.  

**II. Overall Requirements**  

**(1) Guiding Ideology.**  

Fully implement the spirit of the 18th National Congress of the CPC and the Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Plenary Sessions of the 18th Central Committee, thoroughly study and implement General Secretary Xi Jinping's series of important speeches and new concepts, new ideas, and new strategies for state governance, follow the overall layout of the "Five-Sphere Integrated Plan" and the strategic layout of the "Four Comprehensives," conscientiously implement the decisions and deployments of the Central Committee and the State Council, deeply implement the innovation-driven development strategy, take accelerating the deep integration of AI with the economy, society, and national defense as the main line, take enhancing the scientific and technological innovation capability of new-generation AI as the main direction of attack, develop an intelligent economy, build an intelligent society, safeguard national security, build an ecosystem where knowledge clusters, technology clusters, and industry clusters interact and integrate, and talent, institutions, and culture mutually support, proactively respond to risks and challenges, promote intelligence centered on sustainable human development, comprehensively enhance social productivity, comprehensive national strength, and national competitiveness, and provide strong support for accelerating the building of an innovative nation and a world leader in science and technology, and for realizing the "Two Centenary" goals and the Chinese Dream of the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.  

**(2) Basic Principles.**  

**Science and Technology Leadership.** Grasp the world trend of AI development, highlight the forward-looking nature of R&D deployment, explore layout and provide long-term support in key frontier areas, strive to achieve transformative and disruptive breakthroughs in theory, methods, tools, and systems, comprehensively enhance the original innovation capability of AI, accelerate the building of first-mover advantages, and achieve high-end leading development.  

**Systematic Layout.** Formulate targeted systematic development strategies according to the different characteristics of basic research, technology R&D, industrial development, and industry application. Fully leverage the advantage of the socialist system to concentrate resources on major undertakings, promote the overall layout of projects, bases, and talent, ensure organic connection between deployed major projects and new tasks, sequential continuity between current urgent needs and long-term development, and coordinated efforts in innovation capacity building, institutional reform, and policy environment creation.  

**Market Dominance.** Follow market rules, adhere to application orientation, highlight the main role of enterprises in the selection of technology routes and the formulation of industry product standards, accelerate the commercialization of AI scientific and technological achievements, and form competitive advantages. Properly handle the division of labor between government and market, and better leverage the important role of government in planning guidance, policy support, security prevention, market supervision, environment creation, and ethical and legal formulation.  

**Open Source and Openness.** Advocate the concept of open source sharing, and promote co-creation and sharing among all innovation entities including industry, academia, research, and application. Follow the law of coordinated development of economic and national defense construction, promote the two-way transformation and application of military and civilian scientific and technological achievements, and the co-construction and sharing of military and civilian innovation resources, forming a new pattern of deep military-civilian integration with all elements, multiple fields, and high efficiency. Actively participate in global AI R&D and governance, and optimize the allocation of innovation resources globally.  

**(3) Strategic Goals.**  

A three-step approach:  

**First Step:** By 2020, AI technology and application overall are synchronized with the world's advanced level, the AI industry becomes a new important economic growth point, the application of AI technology becomes a new way to improve people's livelihood, and it strongly supports the goal of entering the ranks of innovative countries and achieving the goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects.  
- Important progress is made in new-generation AI theory and technology. Important progress is achieved in the basic theories and core technologies of big data intelligence, cross-media intelligence, collective intelligence, hybrid augmented intelligence, and autonomous intelligent systems. Landmark achievements are made in AI model methods, core devices, high-end equipment, and basic software.  
- The competitiveness of the AI industry enters the first international echelon. A preliminary AI technology standard, service system, and industrial ecological chain are built. Several globally leading AI backbone enterprises are cultivated. The core AI industry scale exceeds 150 billion yuan, driving related industry scale exceeding 1 trillion yuan.  
- The AI development environment is further optimized. Innovative applications are fully launched in key areas. A group of high-level talent teams and innovation groups are gathered. Preliminary AI ethical norms, policies, and regulations are established in some areas.  

**Second Step:** By 2025, major breakthroughs are achieved in AI basic theory, some technologies and applications reach world-leading level, AI becomes the main driving force for China's industrial upgrading and economic transformation, and positive progress is made in the construction of an intelligent society.  
- A new-generation AI theory and technology system is preliminarily established. AI with autonomous learning capability achieves breakthroughs. Leading research results are achieved in multiple fields.  
- The AI industry enters the high end of the global value chain. New-generation AI is widely applied in intelligent manufacturing, intelligent healthcare, smart cities, intelligent agriculture, national defense construction, and other fields. The core AI industry scale exceeds 400 billion yuan, driving related industry scale exceeding 5 trillion yuan.  
- Preliminary AI laws, regulations, ethical norms, and policy systems are established, and AI safety assessment and control capabilities are formed.  

**Third Step:** By 2030, AI theory, technology, and application overall reach world-leading level, China becomes a major global AI innovation center, significant results are achieved in the intelligent economy and intelligent society, laying an important foundation for China to be at the forefront of innovative countries and an economic power.  
- A relatively mature new-generation AI theory and technology system is formed. Major breakthroughs are made in brain-inspired intelligence, autonomous intelligence, hybrid intelligence, and collective intelligence, exerting important influence in the international AI research field and occupying the high ground of AI science and technology.  
- The competitiveness of the AI industry reaches internationally leading level. The breadth and depth of AI application in production, life, social governance, and national defense construction are greatly expanded. A complete industrial chain and high-end industrial cluster covering core technologies, key systems, support platforms, and intelligent applications is formed. The core AI industry scale exceeds 1 trillion yuan, driving related industry scale exceeding 10 trillion yuan.  
- A number of globally leading AI scientific and technological innovation and talent training bases are formed. A more complete AI legal, regulatory, ethical, and policy system is built.  

**(4) Overall Deployment.**  

Developing AI is a complex systems project crucial to the overall situation. The layout should follow "building one system, grasping dual attributes, adhering to a trinity, and strengthening four supports" to form a strategic path for the healthy and sustainable development of AI.

Building an Open and Collaborative Artificial Intelligence Science and Technology Innovation System. Addressing key challenges such as weak foundational theoretical research and the lack of major products and systems, we will establish a new generation of artificial intelligence basic theory and key common technology systems, deploy and construct major scientific and technological innovation bases, strengthen the high-end talent pool in artificial intelligence, promote collaborative interaction among innovation entities, and form a sustainable innovation capability in artificial intelligence.

Grasping the Highly Integrated Characteristics of Artificial Intelligence's Technical and Social Attributes. We must both intensify the research, development, and application of artificial intelligence to maximize its potential, and anticipate the challenges of artificial intelligence, coordinating industrial policy, innovation policy, and social policy to achieve a balance between incentivizing development and reasonable regulation, thereby minimizing risks to the greatest extent.

Adhering to the "Trinity" Advancement of Artificial Intelligence Research and Development, Product Application, and Industry Cultivation. Adapting to the characteristics and trends of artificial intelligence development, we will strengthen the deep integration of the innovation chain and industry chain, and the interactive evolution of technology supply and market demand. Technological breakthroughs will drive field applications and industrial upgrading, while application demonstrations will drive technology and system optimization. While promoting large-scale technology application and industrial development currently, we will also strengthen medium- to long-term research, development, and tackling of key problems to achieve rolling development and continuous improvement, ensuring leadership in theory, dominance in technology, and safety and controllability in applications.

Comprehensively Supporting Scientific, Economic, and Social Development, and National Security. Breakthroughs in artificial intelligence technology will drive the overall enhancement of national innovation capability and lead the process of building a world-leading scientific and technological power. By expanding the intelligent industry and cultivating an intelligent economy, we will create a new growth cycle for China's economic prosperity in the next decade or even decades. Building an intelligent society will promote the improvement of people's livelihoods and well-being, implementing the people-centered development philosophy. Enhancing national defense capabilities with artificial intelligence will ensure and safeguard national security.

III. Key Tasks

Based on the overall national development, accurately grasp the global artificial intelligence development trends, identify breakthroughs and main directions, comprehensively enhance the basic capabilities of scientific and technological innovation, fully expand the depth and breadth of key field applications, and comprehensively improve the intelligent level of economic, social development, and national defense applications.

(1) Building an Open and Collaborative Artificial Intelligence Science and Technology Innovation System.

Focusing on increasing the source supply of artificial intelligence innovation, we will strengthen deployment in frontier basic theory, key common technologies, basic platforms, and talent teams, promote open-source sharing, systematically enhance sustainable innovation capabilities, ensure that China's artificial intelligence technology level ranks among the world's forefront, and contribute more to the development of global artificial intelligence.

1. Establishing a New Generation of Artificial Intelligence Basic Theory System.

Focusing on major scientific frontier issues in artificial intelligence, balancing current needs and long-term development, with a focus on breaking through the bottlenecks in applied basic theory of artificial intelligence, we will proactively lay out basic research that may trigger paradigm shifts in artificial intelligence, promote interdisciplinary integration, and provide a strong scientific reserve for the sustainable development and deep application of artificial intelligence.

Breakthroughs in Applied Basic Theory Bottlenecks. Targeting basic theoretical directions with clear application goals and potential to lead artificial intelligence technology upgrades, we will strengthen basic research on big data intelligence, cross-media perception computing, human-machine hybrid intelligence, swarm intelligence, autonomous collaboration, and decision-making. Big data intelligence theory will focus on breaking through difficulties such as unsupervised learning and comprehensive deep reasoning, establishing data-driven cognitive computing models centered on natural language understanding, and forming capabilities from big data to knowledge and from knowledge to decision-making. Cross-media perception computing theory will focus on breaking through theoretical methods such as low-cost, low-energy intelligent perception, active perception in complex scenes, auditory and speech perception in natural environments, multimedia autonomous learning, achieving superhuman perception and high-dynamic, high-dimensional, multi-modal distributed large-scene perception. Hybrid augmented intelligence theory will focus on breaking through theories such as human-machine collaborative integration of situational understanding and decision-making learning, intuitive reasoning and causal models, memory and knowledge evolution, achieving hybrid augmented intelligence with learning and thinking close to or exceeding human intelligence levels. Swarm intelligence theory will focus on breaking through the theories and methods of swarm intelligence organization, emergence, and learning, establishing expressible and computable swarm intelligence incentive algorithms and models, forming an internet-based swarm intelligence theoretical system. Autonomous collaborative control and optimization decision-making theory will focus on breaking through theories such as collaborative perception and interaction for autonomous unmanned systems, autonomous collaborative control and optimization decision-making, knowledge-driven human-machine-thing triadic collaboration and interoperability, forming an innovative theoretical system architecture for autonomous intelligent unmanned systems.

Layout of Frontier Basic Theory Research. Targeting directions that may trigger paradigm shifts in artificial intelligence, we will prospectively lay out cross-disciplinary basic research on advanced machine learning, brain-inspired intelligent computing, quantum intelligent computing, etc. Advanced machine learning theory will focus on breaking through theoretical methods such as adaptive learning and autonomous learning, achieving artificial intelligence with high interpretability and strong generalization ability. Brain-inspired intelligent computing theory will focus on breaking through brain-inspired information encoding, processing, memory, learning, and reasoning theories, forming theories and methods such as brain-inspired complex systems and brain-inspired control, establishing new models for large-scale brain-inspired intelligent computing and brain-inspired cognitive computing models. Quantum intelligent computing theory will focus on breaking through quantum-accelerated machine learning methods, establishing hybrid models of high-performance computing and quantum algorithms, forming efficient, accurate, and autonomous quantum artificial intelligence system architectures.

Conduct Interdisciplinary Exploratory Research. Promote the integration of artificial intelligence with neuroscience, cognitive science, quantum science, psychology, mathematics, economics, sociology, and other related basic disciplines, strengthen mathematical basic theoretical research leading the development of artificial intelligence algorithms and models, attach importance to basic theoretical research on artificial intelligence legal ethics, support highly original and non-consensus exploratory research, encourage scientists to explore freely, boldly tackle frontier scientific problems in artificial intelligence, propose more original theories, and make more original discoveries.

Special Column 1 Basic Theory
1. Big Data Intelligence Theory. Research new artificial intelligence methods combining data-driven and knowledge-guided approaches, cognitive computing theory and methods centered on natural language understanding and image graphics, comprehensive deep reasoning and creative artificial intelligence theory and methods, basic theory and framework for intelligent decision-making under incomplete information, data-driven general artificial intelligence mathematical models and theory, etc.
2. Cross-Media Perception Computing Theory. Research perception acquisition beyond human visual capabilities, active visual perception and computing for the real world, auditory perception and computing in natural acoustic scenes, speech perception and computing in natural interactive environments, human-like perception and computing for asynchronous sequences, autonomous learning for media intelligent perception, urban full-dimensional intelligent perception reasoning engine.
3. Hybrid Augmented Intelligence Theory. Research "human-in-the-loop" hybrid augmented intelligence, behavioral enhancement and brain-computer collaboration for human-machine intelligence symbiosis, machine intuitive reasoning and causal models, associative memory models and knowledge evolution methods, hybrid augmented intelligence learning methods for complex data and tasks, cloud robot collaborative computing methods, situational understanding in real-world environments and human-machine group collaboration.
4. Swarm Intelligence Theory. Research swarm intelligence structure theory and organization methods, swarm intelligence incentive mechanisms and emergence mechanisms, swarm intelligence learning theory and methods, general computing paradigms and models for swarm intelligence.
5. Autonomous Collaborative Control and Optimization Decision-Making Theory. Research collaborative perception and interaction for autonomous unmanned systems, collaborative control and optimization decision-making for autonomous unmanned systems, knowledge-driven human-machine-thing triadic collaboration and interoperability, and other theories.
6. Advanced Machine Learning Theory. Research statistical learning basic theory, uncertainty reasoning and decision-making, distributed learning and interaction, privacy-preserving learning, few-shot learning, deep reinforcement learning, unsupervised learning, semi-supervised learning, active learning, and other learning theories and efficient models.
7. Brain-Inspired Intelligent Computing Theory. Research brain-inspired perception, brain-inspired learning, brain-inspired memory mechanisms and computational integration, brain-inspired complex systems, brain-inspired control, and other theories and methods.
8. Quantum Intelligent Computing Theory. Explore quantum patterns and internal mechanisms of brain cognition, research efficient quantum intelligent models and algorithms, high-performance high-qubit quantum artificial intelligence processors, real-time quantum artificial intelligence systems that can interact with the external environment, etc.

2. Establishing a New Generation of Artificial Intelligence Key Common Technology System.

Addressing the urgent need to enhance China's international competitiveness in artificial intelligence, the research and development deployment of new generation artificial intelligence key common technologies should be algorithm-centric, data and hardware-based, with a focus on enhancing perception recognition, knowledge computing, cognitive reasoning, motion execution, and human-computer interaction capabilities, forming an open, compatible, stable, and mature technology system.

Knowledge Computing Engine and Knowledge Service Technology. Focus on breaking through core technologies such as knowledge processing, deep search, and visual interaction, achieving automatic acquisition of continuous knowledge increments, possessing capabilities for concept recognition, entity discovery, attribute prediction, knowledge evolution modeling, and relationship mining, forming cross-media knowledge graphs covering billions of entities across multiple sources, disciplines, and data types.

Cross-Media Analysis and Reasoning Technology. Focus on breaking through technologies such as cross-media unified representation, associative understanding and knowledge mining, knowledge graph construction and learning, knowledge evolution and reasoning, intelligent description and generation, achieving cross-media knowledge representation, analysis, mining, reasoning, evolution, and utilization, building analysis and reasoning engines.

Swarm Intelligence Key Technologies. Focus on breaking through technologies such as internet-based mass collaboration, large-scale collaborative knowledge resource management and open sharing, establishing a swarm intelligence knowledge representation framework, achieving knowledge acquisition based on swarm intelligence perception and swarm intelligence fusion and enhancement in open dynamic environments, supporting nationwide tens of millions of scale swarm perception, collaboration, and evolution.

New Architectures and Technologies for Hybrid Augmented Intelligence. Focus on breaking through core technologies such as human-machine collaborative perception and execution integrated models, new sensor devices with intelligent computing moved forward, general hybrid computing architectures, building hybrid augmented intelligence systems that autonomously adapt to the environment, human-machine group hybrid augmented intelligence systems, and support environments.

Intelligent Technologies for Autonomous Unmanned Systems. Focus on breaking through common technologies such as autonomous unmanned system computing architecture, complex dynamic scene perception and understanding, real-time precise positioning, adaptive intelligent navigation for complex environments, autonomous control of drones, and intelligent technologies such as autonomous driving for automobiles, ships, and rail transit, core technologies for service robots and special robots, supporting the application and industrial development of unmanned systems.

Virtual Reality Intelligent Modeling Technology. Focus on breakthroughs in intelligent behavioral modeling technology for virtual objects, enhancing the sociality, diversity, and interactive realism of intelligent objects in virtual reality, achieving the organic integration and efficient interaction of virtual reality, augmented reality, and other technologies with artificial intelligence.

Intelligent Computing Chips and Systems. Focus on breakthroughs in high-efficiency, reconfigurable brain-like computing chips and brain-like visual sensor technology with computational imaging functions. Develop efficient brain-like neural network architectures and hardware systems with autonomous learning capabilities, achieving brain-like intelligent systems with multimedia perceptual information understanding, intelligent growth, and common-sense reasoning abilities.

Natural Language Processing Technology. Focus on breakthroughs in core technologies such as grammatical logic, character concept representation, and deep semantic analysis of natural language. Promote effective communication and free interaction between humans and machines, achieving intelligent understanding and automatic generation of natural language across multiple styles, languages, and domains.

Box 2 Key Common Technologies  
1. Knowledge Computing Engine and Knowledge Service Technology. Research knowledge computing and visual interactive engines, study knowledge service technologies such as innovative design, digital creativity, and business intelligence centered on visual media, and conduct knowledge discovery from large-scale biological data.  
2. Cross-Media Analysis and Reasoning Technology. Research technologies such as unified cross-media representation, associative understanding and knowledge mining, knowledge graph construction and learning, knowledge evolution and reasoning, intelligent description and generation, and develop cross-media analysis and reasoning engines and verification systems.  
3. Key Technologies for Swarm Intelligence. Conduct research on key technologies for active perception and discovery, knowledge acquisition and generation, collaboration and sharing, evaluation and evolution, human-machine integration and enhancement, self-maintenance and safe interaction in swarm intelligence. Construct a service system architecture for swarm intelligence space and research collaborative decision-making and control technologies for mobile swarm intelligence.  
4. New Architectures and Technologies for Hybrid Augmented Intelligence. Research core technologies for hybrid augmented intelligence, cognitive computing frameworks, new hybrid computing architectures, human-machine co-driving, online intelligent learning technologies, and hybrid augmented intelligence frameworks for parallel management and control.  
5. Intelligent Technologies for Autonomous Unmanned Systems. Research intelligent technologies for autonomous control of drones and autonomous driving for automobiles, ships, and rail transit; service robots, space robots, marine robots, polar robots; unmanned workshops/smart factories; high-end intelligent control technologies and autonomous unmanned operating systems. Research autonomous control technologies for robots and robotic arms based on computer vision in complex environments, such as positioning, navigation, and recognition.  
6. Virtual Reality Intelligent Modeling Technology. Research mathematical expression and modeling methods for intelligent behavior of virtual objects, issues of natural, continuous, and deep interaction between virtual objects and virtual environments and users, and technical and methodological systems for intelligent object modeling.  
7. Intelligent Computing Chips and Systems. Research and develop neural network processors, high-efficiency reconfigurable brain-like computing chips, new perception chips and systems, intelligent computing architectures and systems, and artificial intelligence operating systems. Research hybrid computing architectures suitable for artificial intelligence.  
8. Natural Language Processing Technology. Research computation and analysis technologies for short texts, cross-lingual text mining technologies, and semantic understanding technologies for machine cognitive intelligence, and human-machine dialogue systems for multimedia information understanding.

Box 2 Key Common Technologies

1. Knowledge Computing Engine and Knowledge Service Technology. Research knowledge computing and visual interactive engines, study knowledge service technologies such as innovative design, digital creativity, and business intelligence centered on visual media, and conduct knowledge discovery from large-scale biological data.

2. Cross-Media Analysis and Reasoning Technology. Research technologies such as unified cross-media representation, associative understanding and knowledge mining, knowledge graph construction and learning, knowledge evolution and reasoning, intelligent description and generation, and develop cross-media analysis and reasoning engines and verification systems.

3. Key Technologies for Swarm Intelligence. Conduct research on key technologies for active perception and discovery, knowledge acquisition and generation, collaboration and sharing, evaluation and evolution, human-machine integration and enhancement, self-maintenance and safe interaction in swarm intelligence. Construct a service system architecture for swarm intelligence space and research collaborative decision-making and control technologies for mobile swarm intelligence.

4. New Architectures and Technologies for Hybrid Augmented Intelligence. Research core technologies for hybrid augmented intelligence, cognitive computing frameworks, new hybrid computing architectures, human-machine co-driving, online intelligent learning technologies, and hybrid augmented intelligence frameworks for parallel management and control.

5. Intelligent Technologies for Autonomous Unmanned Systems. Research intelligent technologies for autonomous control of drones and autonomous driving for automobiles, ships, and rail transit; service robots, space robots, marine robots, polar robots; unmanned workshops/smart factories; high-end intelligent control technologies and autonomous unmanned operating systems. Research autonomous control technologies for robots and robotic arms based on computer vision in complex environments, such as positioning, navigation, and recognition.

6. Virtual Reality Intelligent Modeling Technology. Research mathematical expression and modeling methods for intelligent behavior of virtual objects, issues of natural, continuous, and deep interaction between virtual objects and virtual environments and users, and technical and methodological systems for intelligent object modeling.

7. Intelligent Computing Chips and Systems. Research and develop neural network processors, high-efficiency reconfigurable brain-like computing chips, new perception chips and systems, intelligent computing architectures and systems, and artificial intelligence operating systems. Research hybrid computing architectures suitable for artificial intelligence.

8. Natural Language Processing Technology. Research computation and analysis technologies for short texts, cross-lingual text mining technologies, and semantic understanding technologies for machine cognitive intelligence, and human-machine dialogue systems for multimedia information understanding.

3. Coordinated Layout of Artificial Intelligence Innovation Platforms.

Build and layout artificial intelligence innovation platforms to strengthen the foundational support for the research, development, and application of artificial intelligence. The open-source software and hardware foundational platform for artificial intelligence should focus on building a unified computing framework platform that supports artificial intelligence paradigms such as knowledge reasoning, probability statistics, and deep learning, forming an ecosystem that promotes mutual coordination between artificial intelligence software, hardware, and intelligent cloud. The swarm intelligence service platform should focus on building knowledge resource management and open sharing tools based on large-scale internet collaboration, forming a crowd-creation platform and service environment for innovation in industry, academia, research, and application. The hybrid augmented intelligence support platform should focus on building heterogeneous real-time computing engines and new computing clusters that support large-scale training, providing servitized and systematic platforms and solutions for complex intelligent computing. The autonomous unmanned system support platform should focus on building support systems for common core artificial intelligence technologies in complex environments, such as environmental perception, autonomous collaborative control, and intelligent decision-making, forming an open, modular, and reconfigurable development and testing environment for autonomous unmanned systems. The foundational data and security testing platform for artificial intelligence should focus on building public data resource libraries, standard test datasets, and cloud service platforms for artificial intelligence, forming methods, technologies, specifications, and tool sets for testing and evaluating the security of artificial intelligence algorithms and platforms. Promote the open-source and open access of various general software and technology platforms. All types of platforms should advance civil-military sharing and integration in accordance with the requirements and relevant regulations for deep civil-military integration.

Box 3 Foundational Support Platforms  
1. Open-Source Software and Hardware Foundational Platform for Artificial Intelligence. Establish big data open-source software foundational platforms for artificial intelligence, terminal-cloud collaborative artificial intelligence cloud service platforms, new multi-sensor intelligent components and integration platforms, new product design platforms based on artificial intelligence hardware, and big data intelligent service platforms in future networks.  
2. Swarm Intelligence Service Platform. Establish crowd-creation computing support platforms, technology crowd-creation service systems, swarm intelligence software development and verification automation systems, swarm intelligence software learning and innovation systems, swarm intelligence decision-making systems in open environments, and swarm intelligence sharing economy service systems.  
3. Hybrid Augmented Intelligence Support Platform. Establish artificial intelligence supercomputing centers, large-scale superintelligent computing support environments, online intelligent education platforms, "human-in-the-loop" driving brains, intelligent platforms for industrial development complexity analysis and risk assessment, and intelligent support platforms for nuclear power safety operations, as well as human-machine co-driving technology R&D and testing platforms.  
4. Autonomous Unmanned System Support Platform. Establish common core technology support platforms for autonomous unmanned systems, support platforms for autonomous control of drones and autonomous driving for automobiles, ships, and rail transit; support platforms for service robots, space robots, marine robots, and polar robots; and support platforms for smart factories and intelligent control equipment technology.  
5. Foundational Data and Security Testing Platform for Artificial Intelligence. Build public data resource libraries, standard test datasets, and cloud service platforms for artificial intelligence; establish security testing and evaluation models for artificial intelligence algorithms and platforms; and develop tool sets for security testing and evaluation of artificial intelligence algorithms and platforms.

Box 3 Foundational Support Platforms

1. Open-Source Software and Hardware Foundational Platform for Artificial Intelligence. Establish big data open-source software foundational platforms for artificial intelligence, terminal-cloud collaborative artificial intelligence cloud service platforms, new multi-sensor intelligent components and integration platforms, new product design platforms based on artificial intelligence hardware, and big data intelligent service platforms in future networks.

2. Swarm Intelligence Service Platform. Establish crowd-creation computing support platforms, technology crowd-creation service systems, swarm intelligence software development and verification automation systems, swarm intelligence software learning and innovation systems, swarm intelligence decision-making systems in open environments, and swarm intelligence sharing economy service systems.

3. Hybrid Augmented Intelligence Support Platform. Establish artificial intelligence supercomputing centers, large-scale superintelligent computing support environments, online intelligent education platforms, "human-in-the-loop" driving brains, intelligent platforms for industrial development complexity analysis and risk assessment, and intelligent support platforms for nuclear power safety operations, as well as human-machine co-driving technology R&D and testing platforms.

4. Autonomous Unmanned System Support Platform. Establish common core technology support platforms for autonomous unmanned systems, support platforms for autonomous control of drones and autonomous driving for automobiles, ships, and rail transit; support platforms for service robots, space robots, marine robots, and polar robots; and support platforms for smart factories and intelligent control equipment technology.

5. Foundational Data and Security Testing Platform for Artificial Intelligence. Build public data resource libraries, standard test datasets, and cloud service platforms for artificial intelligence; establish security testing and evaluation models for artificial intelligence algorithms and platforms; and develop tool sets for security testing and evaluation of artificial intelligence algorithms and platforms.

4. Accelerate the Cultivation and Gathering of High-End Artificial Intelligence Talent.

Treat the construction of a high-end talent team as a top priority for the development of artificial intelligence, combining cultivation and introduction, improving the artificial intelligence education system, strengthening talent reserves and梯队建设 (echelon construction), especially accelerating the introduction of top global talent and young talent, to form a highland for artificial intelligence talent in China.

Cultivate high-level artificial intelligence innovation talent and teams. Support and cultivate leading artificial intelligence talent with development potential, and strengthen the training of professional technical talent in artificial intelligence basic research, applied research, operation, and maintenance. Emphasize the cultivation of interdisciplinary talent, focusing on cultivating vertically interdisciplinary talent proficient in artificial intelligence theory, methods, technologies, products, and applications, as well as horizontally interdisciplinary talent mastering "AI+" economics, society, management, standards, law, etc. Through major R&D tasks and the construction of base platforms, gather high-end artificial intelligence talent and form a number of high-level innovation teams in several key artificial intelligence fields. Encourage and guide domestic innovation talent and teams to strengthen cooperation and interaction with top global artificial intelligence research institutions.

Increase efforts to introduce high-end artificial intelligence talent. Open special channels and implement special policies to achieve precise introduction of high-end artificial intelligence talent. Focus on introducing top international scientists and high-level innovation teams in neural cognition, machine learning, autonomous driving, intelligent robotics, etc. Encourage the flexible introduction of artificial intelligence talent through methods such as project cooperation and technical consultation. Coordinate the use of existing talent programs such as the "Thousand Talents Plan" to strengthen the introduction of outstanding talent, especially outstanding young talent, in the field of artificial intelligence. Improve policies related to enterprise human capital cost accounting to incentivize enterprises and research institutions to introduce artificial intelligence talent.

Develop artificial intelligence disciplines. Improve the disciplinary layout in the field of artificial intelligence, establish artificial intelligence majors, promote the construction of first-level disciplines in artificial intelligence, and establish artificial intelligence colleges in pilot institutions as soon as possible. Increase the enrollment quotas for doctoral and master's students in artificial intelligence-related disciplines. Encourage universities to broaden the content of artificial intelligence professional education on the original basis, forming a new "Artificial Intelligence + X" interdisciplinary training model, and emphasize the cross-integration of artificial intelligence with disciplines such as mathematics, computer science, physics, biology, psychology, sociology, and law. Strengthen industry-university-research cooperation and encourage collaboration between universities, research institutions, and enterprises in the construction of artificial intelligence disciplines.

(2) Developing High-End and Efficient Intelligent Economy.

Accelerate the cultivation of artificial intelligence industries with significant leading and driving roles, promote deep integration of artificial intelligence with various industrial sectors, and form an intelligent economic structure driven by data, characterized by human-machine collaboration, cross-border integration, and co-creation and sharing. Data and knowledge become the primary factors of economic growth, human-machine collaboration becomes the mainstream mode of production and service, cross-border integration becomes an important economic model, co-creation and sharing become basic features of the economic ecosystem, personalized demand and customization become new trends in consumption, productivity is greatly enhanced, leading industries to move up the value chain, strongly supporting the development of the real economy, and comprehensively improving the quality and efficiency of economic development.

1. Vigorously Developing New Artificial Intelligence Industries.

Accelerate the transformation and application of key artificial intelligence technologies, promote technology integration and business model innovation, drive innovation in intelligent products in key areas, actively cultivate new business forms in artificial intelligence, lay out high-end industrial chains, and build internationally competitive artificial intelligence industry clusters.

Intelligent Software and Hardware. Develop key basic software such as operating systems, databases, middleware, and development tools for artificial intelligence, break through core hardware like graphics processors, research solutions for intelligent systems such as image recognition, speech recognition, machine translation, intelligent interaction, knowledge processing, and control decision-making, and cultivate and expand the basic software and hardware industries for artificial intelligence applications.

Intelligent Robots. Overcome core components and specialized sensors for intelligent robots, improve hardware interface standards, software interface protocols, and safety usage standards for intelligent robots. Develop and produce intelligent industrial robots and intelligent service robots, achieve large-scale application, and enter the international market. Develop and promote special intelligent robots such as space robots, marine robots, and polar robots. Establish standards and safety rules for intelligent robots.

Intelligent Transport Vehicles. Develop autonomous driving cars and rail transit systems, strengthen the integration and support of technologies such as onboard sensing, autonomous driving, internet of vehicles, and internet of things, develop intelligent traffic sensing systems, form China's independent autonomous driving platform technology system and product integration capabilities, and explore shared models for autonomous driving cars. Develop consumer and commercial drones and unmanned ships, establish specialized service systems for testing, appraisal, and competition, and improve airspace and waterway management measures.

Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality. Break through key technologies such as high-performance software modeling, content shooting and generation, augmented reality and human-computer interaction, integrated environments and tools, develop products such as virtual display devices, optical devices, high-performance true 3D displays, and development engines, establish technology, product, service standards, and evaluation systems for virtual reality and augmented reality, and promote integrated applications in key industries.

Intelligent Terminals. Accelerate the research and development of core technologies and products for intelligent terminals, develop new generation mobile intelligent terminal products and devices such as smartphones and onboard intelligent terminals, encourage the development of wearable terminal products such as smartwatches, smart earphones, and smart glasses, and expand product forms and application services.

Internet of Things Basic Devices. Develop high-sensitivity, high-reliability intelligent sensor components and chips that support the new generation internet of things, overcome core technologies of the internet of things such as radio frequency identification and near-field machine communication, and key components such as low-power processors.

2. Accelerating Industrial Intelligent Upgrade.

Promote the integration and innovation of artificial intelligence with various industries, carry out pilot demonstrations of artificial intelligence applications in key industries and fields such as manufacturing, agriculture, logistics, finance, business, and home, promote the large-scale application of artificial intelligence, and comprehensively enhance the intelligent level of industrial development.

Intelligent Manufacturing. Focus on major needs for manufacturing power, promote the integrated application of key technology equipment, core support software, industrial internet, and other systems for intelligent manufacturing, research and develop intelligent products and smart interconnected products, intelligent manufacturing enabling tools and systems, intelligent manufacturing cloud service platforms, promote new manufacturing models such as process intelligent manufacturing, discrete intelligent manufacturing, networked collaborative manufacturing, remote diagnosis and maintenance services, establish intelligent manufacturing standards, and promote the intelligentization of the entire manufacturing lifecycle activities.

Intelligent Agriculture. Develop agricultural intelligent sensing and control systems, intelligent agricultural equipment, autonomous systems for agricultural machinery field operations, etc. Establish and improve an integrated sky-land intelligent agricultural information remote sensing monitoring network. Establish typical agricultural big data intelligent decision analysis systems, carry out integrated application demonstrations such as intelligent farms, intelligent plant factories, intelligent pastures, intelligent fisheries, intelligent orchards, intelligent agricultural product processing workshops, and green intelligent supply chains for agricultural products.

Intelligent Logistics. Strengthen the research, development, and promotion of intelligent logistics equipment such as intelligent loading and unloading, sorting and packaging, processing and distribution, build deep perception intelligent warehousing systems, and improve warehouse operation management levels and efficiency. Improve intelligent logistics public information platforms and command systems, product quality certification and traceability systems, intelligent cargo distribution and scheduling systems, etc.

Intelligent Finance. Establish financial big data systems, enhance the ability to process and understand financial multimedia data. Innovate intelligent financial products and services, develop new financial business forms. Encourage the financial industry to apply technologies and equipment such as intelligent customer service and intelligent monitoring. Establish financial risk intelligent early warning and prevention and control systems.

Intelligent Business. Encourage the application of new technologies such as cross-media analysis and reasoning, knowledge computing engines, and knowledge services in the business field, promote new business services and decision systems based on artificial intelligence. Build cross-media big data platforms covering geographic location, network media, and urban basic data to support enterprises in developing intelligent business. Encourage the provision of customized business intelligent decision services based on individual needs and enterprise management.

Smart Home. Strengthen the integration and application of artificial intelligence technology and home building systems, improve the intelligent level of building equipment and home products. Research and develop home interconnection protocols and interface standards suitable for different application scenarios, improve the perception and connectivity capabilities of home appliances, durable goods, and other home products. Support smart home enterprises to innovate service models and provide interconnected shared solutions.

3. Vigorously Developing Intelligent Enterprises.

Large-scale promotion of enterprise intelligent upgrade. Support and guide enterprises to apply new artificial intelligence technologies in core business links such as design, production, management, logistics, and marketing, build new enterprise organizational structures and operation methods, form business models that integrate manufacturing and services, finance and intelligence, develop personalized customization, and expand the supply of intelligent products. Encourage large internet enterprises to build cloud manufacturing platforms and service platforms, provide key industrial software and model libraries online to manufacturing enterprises, carry out manufacturing capacity outsourcing services, and promote the intelligent development of small and medium-sized enterprises.

Promote the application of smart factories. Strengthen the application demonstration of key technologies and system methods for smart factories, focus on promoting technologies such as production line reconstruction and dynamic intelligent scheduling, intelligent interconnection of production equipment and cloud data collection, multi-dimensional human-machine collaboration and interoperability, encourage and guide enterprises to build factory big data systems, networked distributed production facilities, etc., achieve networked production equipment, visualized production data, transparent production processes, and unmanned production sites, and improve the intelligent level of factory operation management.

Accelerate the cultivation of leading enterprises in the artificial intelligence industry. In advantageous fields such as drones, speech recognition, and image recognition, accelerate the creation of global leading enterprises and brands in artificial intelligence. In emerging fields such as intelligent robots, smart cars, wearable devices, and virtual reality, accelerate the cultivation of a number of leading enterprises. Support artificial intelligence enterprises to strengthen patent layout and lead or participate in the formulation of international standards. Promote the joint establishment of China's artificial intelligence industry technology innovation alliance by domestic advantageous enterprises, industry organizations, scientific research institutions, and universities. Support leading backbone enterprises to build open-source hardware factories and open-source software platforms, form an innovation ecosystem that gathers various resources, and promote the development of small, medium, and micro artificial intelligence enterprises and applications in various fields. Support various institutions and platforms to provide professional services for artificial intelligence enterprises.

4. Creating High Ground for Artificial Intelligence Innovation.

Based on the foundations and advantages of various regions, carry out related industrial layouts according to the application fields of artificial intelligence. Encourage localities to gather high-end elements, high-end enterprises, and high-end talents around the artificial intelligence industry chain and innovation chain, and build artificial intelligence industry clusters and innovation highlands.

Carry out pilot demonstrations of artificial intelligence innovation applications. In regions with a good foundation and great development potential for artificial intelligence, organize national artificial intelligence innovation trials, explore major reforms in systems and mechanisms, policies and regulations, talent cultivation, etc., promote the transformation of artificial intelligence achievements, integrated innovation of major products, and demonstration applications, form replicable and promotable experiences, and lead the development of intelligent economy and intelligent society.

Build national artificial intelligence industrial parks. Relying on innovation carriers such as national independent innovation demonstration zones and national high-tech industrial development zones, strengthen the optimal allocation and combination of elements such as technology, talent, finance, and policies, and accelerate the cultivation and construction of artificial intelligence industry innovation clusters.

Build national artificial intelligence mass innovation bases. Relying on regions where universities and research institutes engaged in artificial intelligence research are concentrated, build professional innovation platforms and new entrepreneurial service institutions in the field of artificial intelligence, build a number of low-cost, convenient, full-element, and open artificial intelligence mass innovation spaces, improve incubation service systems, promote the transfer and transformation of artificial intelligence scientific and technological achievements, and support artificial intelligence innovation and entrepreneurship.

(3) Building a Safe and Convenient Intelligent Society.

Focusing on the goal of improving people's living standards and quality, accelerate the deep application of artificial intelligence, form an intelligent environment that is always present and everywhere, and greatly enhance the intelligent level of the entire society. More and more simple, repetitive, and dangerous tasks are completed by artificial intelligence, individual creativity is greatly exerted, and more high-quality and high-comfort jobs are formed; precise intelligent services are more diverse, people can enjoy high-quality services and convenient life to the maximum; the intelligent level of social governance is greatly improved, and social operation is safer and more efficient.

1. Developing Convenient and Efficient Intelligent Services.

Focusing on urgent livelihood needs such as education, medical care, and elderly care, accelerate the innovative application of artificial intelligence, and provide personalized, diversified, and high-quality services for the public.

Intelligent Education. Use intelligent technology to accelerate the reform of talent training models and teaching methods, and build a new education system that includes intelligent learning and interactive learning. Carry out the construction of smart campuses, promote the application of artificial intelligence in the entire process of teaching, management, and resource construction. Develop three-dimensional comprehensive teaching fields and online education and learning platforms based on big data intelligence. Develop intelligent education assistants, establish intelligent, fast, and comprehensive education analysis systems. Establish a learner-centered education environment, provide precise push education services, and achieve customized daily education and lifelong education.

Intelligent Medical Care. Promote the application of new models and methods of artificial intelligence treatment, and establish a fast and precise intelligent medical system. Explore the construction of smart hospitals, develop human-machine collaborative surgical robots and intelligent diagnosis and treatment assistants, research and develop flexible wearable, biocompatible physiological monitoring systems, research and develop human-machine collaborative clinical intelligent diagnosis and treatment plans, and achieve intelligent image recognition, pathological typing, and intelligent multi-disciplinary consultation. Based on artificial intelligence, carry out large-scale genome identification, proteomics, metabolomics and other research and new drug development, and promote intelligent pharmaceutical supervision. Strengthen intelligent monitoring and prevention of epidemics.

Intelligent Health and Elderly Care. Strengthen group intelligent health management, break through key technologies such as health big data analysis and internet of things, research and develop health management wearable devices and home intelligent health detection and monitoring equipment, promote the transformation of health management from point monitoring to continuous monitoring, from short process management to long process management. Build intelligent elderly care communities and institutions, and construct a safe and convenient intelligent elderly care infrastructure system. Strengthen the intelligentization of products for the elderly and the aging-adaptation of intelligent products, develop audio-visual auxiliary equipment, physical auxiliary equipment and other intelligent home elderly care equipment, and expand the activity space for the elderly. Develop mobile social and service platforms for the elderly, emotional companion assistants, and improve the quality of life for the elderly.

2. Promoting Intelligent Social Governance.

Focusing on hot and difficult issues of social governance such as administrative management, judicial management, urban management, and environmental protection, promote the application of artificial intelligence technology and advance the modernization of social governance.

Intelligent Government Affairs. Develop artificial intelligence platforms suitable for government services and decision-making, develop decision engines for open environments, and promote application in major strategic decisions such as complex social problem research, policy evaluation, risk warning, and emergency response. Strengthen the integration of government information resources and precise prediction of public needs, and smooth the interactive channels between the government and the public.

Smart Courts. Build a smart court data platform that integrates trial, personnel, data application, judicial openness, and dynamic monitoring, promote the application of artificial intelligence in evidence collection, case analysis, legal document reading and analysis, and achieve the intelligentization of the court trial system and trial capability.

Smart Cities. Build smart urban infrastructure, develop smart buildings, and promote the intelligent upgrading and transformation of municipal infrastructure such as underground utility tunnels; construct urban big data platforms, establish urban operation management systems that integrate multi-source heterogeneous data, achieving comprehensive perception of urban infrastructure and important ecological elements like urban green spaces and wetlands, as well as deep understanding of the operation of complex urban systems; research and develop community public service information systems to promote synergy between community service systems and residents' smart home systems; advance the intelligence of the entire lifecycle of urban planning, construction, management, and operation.

Smart Transportation. Research and establish a technological system for autonomous driving and vehicle-road coordination in commercial vehicles. Develop a comprehensive big data application platform for multi-dimensional traffic information in complex scenarios, achieving intelligent traffic management and comprehensive operational coordination and command, and establish an intelligent traffic monitoring, management, and service system covering ground, rail, low-altitude, and maritime transportation.

Smart Environmental Protection. Establish a big data platform system for intelligent monitoring in environmental areas such as atmosphere, water, and soil, and build an intelligent environmental monitoring network and service platform that integrates land and sea, combines space and ground, coordinates top-down and bottom-up efforts, and facilitates information sharing. Develop intelligent prediction models and early warning solutions for resource and energy consumption as well as environmental pollutant emissions. Strengthen the construction of intelligent environmental protection and emergency response systems for environmental incidents in key national strategic regions such as the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region and the Yangtze River Economic Belt.

3. Using Artificial Intelligence to Enhance Public Safety and Security Capabilities.

Promote the deep application of artificial intelligence in the field of public safety and facilitate the establishment of an intelligent monitoring, early warning, and control system for public safety. Addressing urgent needs in social governance, new types of crime investigation, counter-terrorism, and other areas, develop intelligent security and policing products that integrate various detection and sensing technologies, video image information analysis and recognition technologies, and biometric recognition technologies, and establish intelligent monitoring platforms. Strengthen the intelligent upgrading of security equipment in key public areas, and support eligible communities or cities in carrying out demonstrations of artificial intelligence-based public security zones. Enhance the role of artificial intelligence in ensuring food safety by establishing an intelligent food safety early warning system covering food classification, warning levels, food safety risks, and assessments. Strengthen the effective monitoring of natural disasters through artificial intelligence, building intelligent monitoring, early warning, and comprehensive response platforms for major natural disasters such as earthquakes, geological disasters, meteorological disasters, floods and droughts, and marine disasters.

4. Promoting Social Interaction, Sharing, and Mutual Trust.

Fully leverage the role of artificial intelligence technology in enhancing social interaction and promoting trustworthy communication. Strengthen the research and development of next-generation social networks, accelerate the promotion and application of augmented reality, virtual reality, and other technologies, promote the integration of virtual and physical environments, meet real-time information needs for personal perception, analysis, judgment, and decision-making, and achieve seamless switching across work, study, life, entertainment, and other scenarios. To address the need for improving interpersonal communication barriers, develop intelligent assistant products with emotional interaction functions that can accurately understand human needs, achieving a virtuous cycle of emotional communication and need fulfillment. Promote the integration of blockchain technology and artificial intelligence, establish a new social credit system, and minimize the cost and risk of interpersonal interactions.

(IV) Strengthening Civil-Military Integration in the Field of Artificial Intelligence.

Thoroughly implement the civil-military integration development strategy and promote the formation of an all-element, multi-domain, high-benefit pattern of civil-military integration in artificial intelligence. Orient towards civil-military sharing and common use in deploying research and development of next-generation artificial intelligence basic theories and key common technologies, and establish regular communication and coordination mechanisms among research institutes, universities, enterprises, and military industry units. Promote the two-way transformation of artificial intelligence technology between civilian and military applications, strengthen the strong support of next-generation artificial intelligence technology for command and decision-making, military simulations, defense equipment, etc., and guide the transformation and application of artificial intelligence scientific and technological achievements from the defense sector to civilian fields. Encourage leading civilian research forces to participate in major scientific and technological innovation tasks in the defense field of artificial intelligence, and promote the rapid integration of various artificial intelligence technologies into defense innovation areas. Strengthen the construction of common standard systems for civil-military artificial intelligence technologies, and promote the coordinated layout and open sharing of scientific and technological innovation platforms and bases.

(V) Building a Ubiquitous, Safe, and Efficient Intelligent Infrastructure System.

Vigorously promote the construction of intelligent information infrastructure, enhance the intelligence level of traditional infrastructure, and form an infrastructure system that meets the needs of the intelligent economy, intelligent society, and national defense construction. Accelerate the transformation of digital and networked information infrastructure centered on information transmission into intelligent information infrastructure that integrates perception, transmission, storage, computation, and processing. Optimize and upgrade network infrastructure, research and deploy fifth-generation mobile communication (5G) systems, improve Internet of Things infrastructure, accelerate the construction of an integrated space-ground information network, and enhance low-latency, high-throughput transmission capabilities. Coordinate the use of big data infrastructure, strengthen data security and privacy protection, and provide massive data support for the research, development, and widespread application of artificial intelligence. Build high-efficiency computing infrastructure to enhance the service support capability of supercomputing centers for artificial intelligence applications. Build a distributed high-efficiency energy internet, form a new energy network that supports the coordination and complementarity of multiple energy sources and timely and effective access, promote intelligent energy storage facilities and intelligent electricity consumption facilities, and achieve real-time matching and intelligent response of energy supply and demand information.

Special Column 4: Intelligent Infrastructure  
1. Network Infrastructure. Accelerate the deployment of research, development, and application of 5G enhancement technologies for real-time collaborative artificial intelligence, build high-precision navigation and positioning networks for spatial collaborative artificial intelligence, strengthen the development of core technologies and key facilities for the intelligent sensing Internet of Things, develop industrial internet supporting intelligence, vehicle networking for autonomous driving, etc., and research intelligent network security architectures. Accelerate the construction of an integrated space-ground information network and promote the comprehensive integration of space-based information networks, future internet, and mobile communication networks.  
2. Big Data Infrastructure. Relying on public infrastructure such as the national data sharing and exchange platform and data open platform, build big data basic information databases in areas such as government governance, public services, industrial development, and technology research and development to support the application of big data in national governance. Integrate various social data platforms and data center resources to form a nationwide, rationally distributed, and smoothly connected integrated service capability.  
3. High-Efficiency Computing Infrastructure. Continue to strengthen the construction of supercomputing infrastructure, distributed computing infrastructure, and cloud computing centers, and build a sustainable development environment for high-performance computing applications. Promote the research, development, and application of next-generation supercomputers.

(VI) Forward-Looking Deployment of Major Scientific and Technological Projects for New Generation Artificial Intelligence.

Address the urgent needs and weak links in China's artificial intelligence development by establishing major scientific and technological projects for new generation artificial intelligence. Strengthen overall coordination, clarify task boundaries and research and development priorities, and form a "1+N" artificial intelligence project cluster with the major scientific and technological projects for new generation artificial intelligence at the core and the existing research and development layout as support.

"1" refers to the major scientific and technological projects for new generation artificial intelligence, focusing on the forward-looking layout of basic theories and key common technologies, including research on big data intelligence, cross-media perception computing, hybrid enhanced intelligence, swarm intelligence, autonomous collaborative control and decision-making theories, research on knowledge computing engines and knowledge service technologies, cross-media analysis and reasoning technologies, key technologies for swarm intelligence, new architectures and technologies for hybrid enhanced intelligence, autonomous unmanned control technologies, etc., and open-source sharing of basic theories and common technologies for artificial intelligence. Continuously conduct predictions and research on the development of artificial intelligence, and strengthen research on the comprehensive impact of artificial intelligence on the economy and society and countermeasures.

"N" refers to artificial intelligence research and development projects deployed in relevant national plans and programs, with a focus on strengthening the connection with the major scientific and technological projects for new generation artificial intelligence and jointly promoting the theoretical research, technological breakthroughs, and product development and application of artificial intelligence. Strengthen the connection with national major science and technology projects, and support the development of artificial intelligence software and hardware in national major science and technology projects such as "Core High-Base" (core electronic devices, high-end general-purpose chips, basic software) and integrated circuit equipment. Strengthen mutual support with other "Science and Technology Innovation 2030—Major Projects", accelerate research on brain science and brain-like computing, quantum information and quantum computing, intelligent manufacturing and robotics, big data, etc., to provide support for major technological breakthroughs in artificial intelligence. The National Key R&D Program continues to promote the implementation of key projects such as high-performance computing and increases support for the research, development, and application of artificial intelligence-related technologies; the National Natural Science Foundation of China strengthens support for interdisciplinary research and free exploration in cutting-edge fields of artificial intelligence. In major projects such as deep-sea space stations and health security, as well as key projects of the National Key R&D Program such as smart cities and intelligent agricultural machinery equipment, strengthen the application demonstration of artificial intelligence technologies. Other scientific and technological programs should support the open sharing of research results related to basic theories and common technologies of artificial intelligence.

Innovate the organization and implementation model of major scientific and technological projects for new generation artificial intelligence, adhere to the principles of concentrating resources on major tasks and achieving key breakthroughs, fully utilize the market mechanism, and mobilize the efforts of departments, localities, enterprises, and all sectors of society to jointly promote implementation. Clarify management responsibilities, conduct regular evaluations, strengthen dynamic adjustments, and improve management efficiency.

IV. Resource Allocation

Make full use of existing resources such as funds and bases, allocate international and domestic innovation resources in a coordinated manner, leverage the guiding role of fiscal investment and policy incentives and the dominant role of market-based resource allocation, leverage enterprises and society to increase investment, and form a new pattern of multi-party support from fiscal funds, financial capital, and social capital.

(1) Establish a Fiscal Guidance and Market-Led Funding Support Mechanism.

Coordinate government and market multi-channel funding, increase fiscal funding support, revitalize existing resources, and provide support for basic frontier research, key common technology research, achievement transfer and transformation, base and platform construction, innovation application demonstration, etc., in artificial intelligence. Use existing government investment funds to support eligible artificial intelligence projects, and encourage leading backbone enterprises and industrial innovation alliances to take the lead in establishing market-oriented artificial intelligence development funds. Use various channels such as angel investment, venture capital, startup investment funds, and capital market financing to guide social capital to support the development of artificial intelligence. Actively use public-private partnership (PPP) and other models to guide social capital to participate in the implementation of major artificial intelligence projects and the transformation and application of scientific and technological achievements.

(2) Optimize the Layout and Construction of Artificial Intelligence Innovation Bases.

According to the layout and framework of national-level scientific and innovation bases, coordinate and promote the construction of several internationally leading innovation bases in the field of artificial intelligence. Guide existing national key laboratories, enterprise national key laboratories, national engineering laboratories, and other bases related to artificial intelligence to focus on frontier directions of new generation artificial intelligence for research. In accordance with prescribed procedures, establish relevant technology and industry innovation bases in the field of artificial intelligence with enterprises as the main body and industry-university-research cooperation, and leverage the demonstration and driving role of technological innovation by leading backbone enterprises. Develop specialized maker spaces in the field of artificial intelligence to promote precise connection of the latest technological achievements with resources and services. Fully utilize the role of various innovation bases in gathering talent, funds, and other innovation resources, break through basic frontier theories and key common technologies of artificial intelligence, and carry out application demonstrations.

(3) Coordinate International and Domestic Innovation Resources.

Support domestic artificial intelligence enterprises in cooperating with leading international AI universities, research institutes, and teams. Encourage domestic AI enterprises to "go global," providing convenience and services for capable AI enterprises to engage in overseas mergers and acquisitions, equity investments, venture capital, and the establishment of overseas R&D centers. Encourage foreign AI enterprises and research institutions to set up R&D centers in China. Leveraging the "Belt and Road" initiative, promote the establishment of international AI science and technology cooperation bases and joint research centers, accelerating the application and promotion of AI technologies in countries along the Belt and Road. Promote the establishment of international AI organizations to jointly develop relevant international standards. Support relevant industry associations, alliances, and service institutions in building global service platforms for AI enterprises.

V. Safeguard Measures

Addressing the practical requirements for promoting the healthy and rapid development of AI in China, properly respond to the challenges that AI may bring, form institutional arrangements adapted to AI development, build an open and inclusive international environment, and lay a solid social foundation for AI development.

(1) Formulate laws, regulations, and ethical norms to promote AI development.

Strengthen research on legal, ethical, and social issues related to AI, and establish a legal and ethical framework to ensure the healthy development of AI. Conduct research on legal issues related to AI applications, such as the determination of civil and criminal liability, privacy and intellectual property protection, and the secure use of information, establishing traceability and accountability systems to clarify the legal subjects of AI and their related rights, obligations, and responsibilities. Focus on rapidly developing application areas such as autonomous driving and service robots, accelerate the formulation of relevant safety management regulations, and lay a legal foundation for the rapid application of new technologies. Conduct research on behavioral science and ethics related to AI, and establish a multi-level ethical judgment structure and a human-machine collaboration ethical framework. Develop moral norms and codes of conduct for AI R&D and design personnel, strengthen the assessment of potential AI risks and benefits, and build solutions for emergencies in complex AI scenarios. Actively participate in global AI governance, strengthen research on major international common issues such as robot alienation and safety supervision, deepen international cooperation in AI laws, regulations, and international rules, and jointly address global challenges.

(2) Improve key policies supporting AI development.

Implement fiscal and tax preferential policies for small, medium-sized, and startup AI enterprises, supporting AI enterprises through policies such as tax incentives for high-tech enterprises and additional deductions for R&D expenses. Improve and implement policies related to data openness and protection, carry out pilot reforms on the open use of public data, and support the public and enterprises in fully exploring the commercial value of public data to promote AI application innovation. Research and improve policy systems in education, healthcare, insurance, and social assistance to adapt to AI, effectively addressing the social issues brought by AI.

(3) Establish AI technology standards and intellectual property systems.

Strengthen research on the AI standard framework system. Adhering to the principles of safety, usability, interoperability, and traceability, gradually establish and improve technical standards for AI, including basic commonality, interconnectivity, industry applications, cybersecurity, and privacy protection. Accelerate the formulation of standards for specific application areas such as autonomous driving and service robots by industry associations and alliances. Encourage AI enterprises to participate in or lead the development of international standards, using the "going global" of technical standards to promote the overseas application and promotion of AI products and services. Strengthen intellectual property protection in the AI field, improve the interactive support mechanism for technological innovation, patent protection, and standardization in AI, and promote the intellectual propertyization of AI innovation achievements. Establish a public patent pool for AI to promote the use and diffusion of new AI technologies.

(4) Establish an AI safety supervision and evaluation system.

Strengthen research and assessment of the impact of AI on national security and confidentiality, improve the supporting security protection system involving personnel, technology, materials, and management, and build an AI safety monitoring and early warning mechanism. Strengthen the forecasting, analysis, and tracking research on AI technology development, adhere to a problem-oriented approach, and accurately grasp the trends in technology and industry development. Enhance risk awareness, emphasize risk assessment and prevention, strengthen forward-looking prevention and constraint guidance, focus on the impact on employment in the near term and on social ethics in the long term, ensuring that AI development is regulated within safe and controllable limits. Establish and improve a transparent AI supervision system, implementing a dual-layer supervision structure that emphasizes both design accountability and application oversight, achieving full-process supervision of AI algorithm design, product development, and application outcomes. Promote self-discipline in the AI industry and enterprises, strengthen management, and increase penalties for behaviors such as data abuse, infringement of personal privacy, and violation of ethical norms. Strengthen the R&D of AI cybersecurity technologies and enhance the cybersecurity protection of AI products and systems. Build a dynamic evaluation mechanism for AI R&D and application, developing systematic testing methods and indicator systems around issues such as the complexity, risk, uncertainty, interpretability, and potential economic impact of AI designs, products, and systems. Establish cross-domain AI testing platforms, promote AI safety certification, and evaluate the key performance of AI products and systems.

(5) Vigorously strengthen AI workforce training.

Accelerate research on the changes in employment structure and patterns brought by AI, as well as the skill requirements for new professions and jobs, and establish a lifelong learning and employment training system that meets the needs of the intelligent economy and society. Support higher education institutions, vocational schools, and social training institutions in conducting AI skills training, significantly enhancing the professional skills of the workforce to meet the demand for high-skilled, high-quality jobs generated by AI development in China. Encourage enterprises and various institutions to provide AI skills training for their employees. Strengthen retraining and guidance for workers to ensure a smooth transition for laborers engaged in simple, repetitive tasks and those unemployed due to AI.

(6) Widely conduct AI科普 activities.

Support the implementation of diverse AI科普 activities, encourage scientists and technicians to engage in the科普 and promotion of AI, and comprehensively enhance the overall public understanding and application level of AI. Implement a national intelligent education program, introduce AI-related courses in primary and secondary schools, gradually promote programming education, and encourage private sector participation in the development and promotion of educational programming software and games. Build and improve AI科普 infrastructure, fully utilize the科普 role of various AI innovation base platforms, and encourage AI enterprises and research institutions to set up open-source platforms and open their R&D platforms, production facilities, or exhibition halls to the public. Support the organization of AI competitions and encourage diverse forms of AI科普 content creation. Encourage scientists to participate in AI科普.

VI. Organization and Implementation

The development plan for the new generation of artificial intelligence is a forward-looking strategy with overall and long-term significance. It is essential to strengthen organizational leadership, improve mechanisms, focus on goals, closely monitor tasks, and ensure implementation with a persistent spirit, seeing the blueprint through to completion.

(1) Organizational Leadership.

In accordance with the unified arrangements of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the State Council, the National Science and Technology System Reform and Innovation System Construction Leadership Group will take the lead in overall coordination, deliberating on major tasks, policies, issues, and work arrangements, promoting the construction of AI-related laws and regulations, and guiding, coordinating, and supervising relevant departments in the deployment and implementation of the plan’s tasks. Relying on the inter-ministerial joint meeting for the management of national science and technology programs (special projects, funds, etc.), the Ministry of Science and Technology, together with relevant departments, will be responsible for promoting the implementation of major science and technology projects for the new generation of AI and strengthening the coordination with other program tasks. Establish an AI Plan Promotion Office, located within the Ministry of Science and Technology, to specifically oversee the implementation of the plan. Establish an AI Strategy Advisory Committee to research forward-looking and strategic major issues in AI and provide advisory assessments for major AI decisions. Promote the construction of AI think tanks, support various think tanks in researching major AI issues, and provide strong intellectual support for AI development.

(2) Ensuring Implementation.

Strengthen the breakdown of plan tasks, clarify responsible units and timelines, and formulate annual and phased implementation plans. Establish monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for plan implementation, including annual and mid-term assessments. Adapt to the rapid development characteristics of AI, and dynamically adjust plans and projects based on task progress, phase goal completion, and new developments in technology.

(3) Pilot Demonstrations.

Develop specific plans for major AI tasks and key policy measures and conduct pilot demonstrations. Strengthen the overall guidance for pilot demonstrations across departments and regions, and promptly summarize and promote replicable experiences and practices. Through pilot projects and demonstration leadership, promote the healthy and orderly development of AI.

(4) Public Guidance.

Fully utilize various traditional and emerging media to promptly publicize new progress and achievements in AI, making the healthy development of AI a consensus across society and mobilizing public participation and support for AI development. Provide timely guidance on public opinion to better address the social, ethical, and legal challenges that may arise from AI development.